---
layout: post
title:  "Hummus"
categories: [ vegan, gf, dairy-free ]
image: assets/images/hummus.jpeg
traits: GF, DF, VN
---

Hummus is a dip, spread, or savory dish made from cooked, mashed chickpeas blended with tahini, lemon juice, and garlic. Usually garnished with olive oil, a few whole chickpeas, parsley, and paprika.  


## Ingredients

* 2 cups of dry chickpeas (also called garbanzo beans)*
* 2 table spoon olive oil
* Paprika to taste
* Parsley (optional for garnish)
* 1 cup of tahini paste
* ½ lemon for lemon juice
* ¼ Clover of garlic
* 3 tsp salt (or to taste)
* 1 tsp  cumin (or to taste)

* *Note: Instead of the dry chickpeas you can use a can of chickpeas. If so, then start in step 3.


## Preparation

1. Place the chickpeas in a bowl and cover them with water for 1 day.
2. Drain the chickpeas, place them in a pot, cover them with water and cook them until they are soft. Let them cool and don’t forget to keep the water used to cook the garbanzo beans.
3. If you are using chickpeas from a can, drain and rinse the chickpeas. Keep the liquid from the can in a separate container.
4. Tahini sauce: In a food processor put the garlic, lemon juice, tahini, salt and cumin. Blend it until you have a homogeneous sauce, for around 1 minute. Voila! Now you have tahini sauce!
5. Add the chickpeas to the tahini in the processor and blend them until you have an homogeneous consistency. It may take around 3 minutes.
6. Put some hummus on a plate.  To decorate, use the back of a table spoon to smooth the top. Add olive oil and paprika on top. You may also add parsley and some chickpeas.

Enjoy!!





## Tips

* For the recipe to be low sodium replace the salt with low sodium salt or use just pepper.








